Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about ESX promises.
All right, so promises are a new addition to JavaScript e 2015 version, which allow us to make HDTV
requests much better, much cleaner.
All right, so what are we going to do is in this lecture, I'm going to introduce you to promises,
and we are going to do a very, very, very simple example.
And in the next lecture, we're going to clean up our code using promises.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is, first off, let's go over what actually promises are.
A promise is actually an object representing the eventual completion or failure of an asynchronous operation.
Now, you have to keep this in mind that a promise when you whenever you used promises, a promise allows
us to use two key words.
One is resolve.
The other one is reject.
Reject is when we use reject, sorry, resolve.
When we use the resolve, we are working with the completion of that request.
What do we want to do with that request?
And when we say reject, it means there has been some error.
What do we want to do with that error?
All right.
So essentially a promise is a returned object to which we attach callbacks now and now.
We don't pass callbacks and into this promise function, we just attach callbacks.
And the callbacks are like 10 or DataCash, which we are going to go over.
So now let's go ahead and let's first off.
Now, if you want to read more about promises, here is the link and you can go ahead and read more.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to say my first promise.
All right.
And the promises are instantiated using the new key word.
Right.
So we are going to see a new promise.
Each time you want to create a promise, you're going to see new promise.
All right.
And this is capital.
So in here now, here is where the promise is.
So we are going to have a resolve key and then we are going to have a reject.
So we are going to pass and resolve.
All right, and we are going to say reject.
So this is going to be an error function.
Now, inside this function, what do I want to do in this very simple example, I'm just going to use
a set time and function and this time my function is going to method is going to carry out the function
and what is the function going to do?
The function after exactly 1000 milliseconds is going to either, say, resolve and passan success and
log it to the console or the function is going to say a reject in person.
Who would see?
All right, so first off, I'm just going to comment about the reject part now, the promises created,
but the thing is that we have not come.
We have not we have not called this my first promise function.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to call it down here.
And whatever you call that function, you call it like this.
But instead of doing that, we are going to remove the parentheses and we are going to say that then.
All right, now here, it says, attaches callbacks for the resolution and a rejection of the promise.
So this is inside this.
We are going to pass in a callback function.
All right.
Or actually, we're going to attach a callback function to this promise, which is going to run when
the promise is resolved, meaning it's successful or the promise is rejected.
Meaning works.
All right.
So let's see.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to first resolve the promise and then we are going to reject
the promise.
All right, so here it says the callback to execute when the promise is resolved.
So what do I want to do?
I want to grab our six.
I want to create a a parameter of success message and I want to print it.
To the concerts, I'm going to say console does log, print white, print our success message, success
message.
Success.
Come on, why can't I?
Oh, because I misspelled it there.
Come on, buddy, it's a success story.
All right, so now.
So this is when the promise, this part, this callback is when the promise is resolved.
What if the promise is rejected?
So after this call back, we are going to toss in one comma and then we are going to create the other
function.
Right.
So I'm not going to hit enter the prettier is going to take care of that.
So I'm just going to say error MSJ and when the error happens, what do I want to do?
I want to log to the console, that error message.
Right.
I'm going to save it.
So.
Have I opened it now we get success, of course, after one second.
I shouldn't have saved it because I want to explain it.
So now this.
We have created our promise.
This is our new promise.
We whenever you create promise, you say new promise.
So either you return that new promise inside a function or you can create it as a function expression
as well.
And this new promise is going to run the Satima function in this a time out function.
This is just a timer.
It means that it is going to run a specific code after one second.
So after one second, we going to resolve the promise, meaning that the promise is successful.
Right.
And we can also go ahead and comment this one out and come this one and the project.
So after one second, we want to reject that promise, meaning that there has been some error.
So if the promise is success, success, and if I save it, we in here we can see success.
But what if the promises reject?
What do we get then?
We should get this right.
So if I save it, we get what's right.
The reason for that is we have created these resolves resolve and rejected functions.
We have called them here, but we have never defined these functions.
Were the function definition for this resolve and this reject?
Here they are.
So this part that I have just highlighted, this is the function definition for resolve and this part
that I've highlighted, this is the function definition for upsy.
That's why Woodsey is actually an argument to this error message parameter.
That's why when you say council log error message, what is the value of the error message?
It's what's right.
So this is how we can this is well, actually, how you use promise is very, very simple example,
but it shows you how promises work.
Right.
And how you resolve or either reject a case.
There is another way of calling that promise, that promise function.
Right.
And that and instead of doing this comma and then the error this the reject function definition, we
can also use the dot catch method, which is a better syntax than this one, because this is let's say
you have multiple promises, then this is going to get really messy and it's going to be hard to read
when this results, function ends and where does the reject function starts.
So instead of writing this, there is actually another syntax and I'm just going to say that then plus
dot catch.
All right.
So in here, what we're going to do is we're going to grab our my first promise, we are going to call
it and we're going to say that now this part is the same inside the dot then.
And we are going to say success MSJ and then we are going to run this function.
This function is simply going to log to the console, the success message.
Success message.
Now, what what about the reject one now instead of, like providing a comma and writing the function
there after this then is completed, where is this then done, then completed?
So this parentheses starts there and this one ends here.
So at the end, I'm just going to say that catch.
So this dot catch is going to automatically catch the callback to execute when the promise is rejected.
So the Intellisense says it.
All right.
I don't need to explain it.
So in here we are going to say error messages and we are going to run a function.
This function is going to log to the console, our error message.
And when I say that this is the good thing about code formatter, this prettier than you can see that
this dot then is on a different line, very, very readable.
This dot catch is on a different line, very, very readable.
And when I close that just comment in our resolve and when I serve it after one second, we see success
and comments are not common.
This one in after.
Once again, we see what see and this is actually a better syntax.
I'm not going to be using this anymore.
This part this is you could do this.
It doesn't matter.
Both of them are available by this promise.
It's just a preference.
But I think for teaching purposes, this is better because this is easier for you to understand and
easier for me to maintain.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.